The Bible says this, wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, and whosoever is deceived
thereby is not wise. I want you to look at a verse of Scripture in the New Testament
and then we'll kind of get into the study this evening. Turn to the book of Ephesians
if you will. Ephesians chapter number 5, a verse of Scripture that we're very familiar
with. And we look at this verse of Scripture, we find that the Apostle Paul is giving some
instruction to the church at Ephesus concerning the importance of being filled with the Spirit
of God. But he says this in verse number 18, and be not drunk with wine wherein is excess,
but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual
songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all
things unto God and the Father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting yourselves
one to another in the fear of God. When we consider the word wine in the Scriptures,
we must understand that the word is a generic term and that word wine can refer to an alcoholic
beverage or it can refer to the fruit of the vine. In order to determine the appropriate
use of the word, we must look at the context in which the word is used. And that is a standard
biblical principle for interpretation of Scripture and we must take Scripture within context
and looking within the context of Scripture, you would be able to determine the use of
the word. Now we understand words that have generic definitions, they're generic terms,
and the terms are defined by the way in which they're used, the context in which they're
used. For instance, if I were to use this evening the word story, we all know the word
story in our English language, and if I were to say this, this evening before the children
go to bed, I'm going to read them a story. Do you understand what I mean by that word?
A story, something within a book, an account, a literary work. But if I were to say that
we went to the complex where so-and-so lived to make a delivery and we had to climb the
stairs to the 8th story. It's different, right? Same word, but the context defines
for us, we know that if we said they live on the 8th story of that building, that we're
not talking about a literary work. Likewise, if I said I was going to read an 8th story,
now if I used it that way, maybe you could say that there's the 8th one in a series,
but the fact of the matter is that context really helps us define words. Such is the
case with the word wine in the Scriptures. We find that the word wine is used to describe
either the fruit of the vine or it is used to describe or define an alcoholic beverage.
This evening as we look at the verses of Scripture and look at what's taking place in the Scriptures
and looking within context, we'll be able to determine if the word that is being used
as wine is an alcoholic beverage or if it is the fruit of the vine by simply taking
it in context. Now the great question that is to be asked and the question that was asked
on that Wednesday evening series of Ask the Pastor and the question in which I'll endeavor
to answer this evening as we look at the Scriptures is this, and it's simply temperance or abstinence.
What is the right answer when it comes to the subject of alcohol? Now let me say this,
just about every Christian I have ever spoken to about the subject of alcohol would readily
admit that drunkenness is wrong. There's not any believer that I've ever met that I've
spoken to on the subject of alcohol, wine, drinking that has ever told me that they
believe getting drunk is okay. Not one. Now there may be some that believe that, but none
that I've spoken to have ever told me that. In our society today there's a debate that
is raging over the practice of social drinking, so the question that we must answer is whether
we should totally abstain from alcohol or is alcohol okay within moderation. If you're
taking notes this evening the title for our lesson is this, The Deceitfulness of Alcohol.
In order to answer the question on temperance or abstinence, is it okay, should we totally
abstain from alcohol or is alcohol okay with moderation, I'd like to begin by asking this
question, what do the Scriptures say? Now that question that was asked on Wednesday
evening said, would you tell me from the Bible? And the Bible is the sole authority for faith
and practice. It does not matter what my opinion is, it doesn't matter what my perspective
is, what matters is what the Scriptures tell us. And so we see this verse of Scripture
in Proverbs 20 and verse number 1 where the Scriptures say, wine is a mocker, strong drink
is raging, and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise. Now in each of these cases when
we look at these verses of Scripture I will tell you readily from the beginning of the
study this evening that there are people that I've spoken to about each of these Scriptures,
each of the passages that we'll look at, that have had some type of a response, debate
type response to each account. I am going to go through the Scriptures and provide for
you exactly what the Scriptures say and yes give commentary on the Scriptures, but I really
want to seek to know what is it that the Scriptures say concerning the subject. Now here we find
that in the verse of Scripture it says, whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise. Now obviously
we ought to be wise people and the question is, well I'm not, or the statement that people
have said to me is, well I'm not deceived by it. I'm not deceived by alcohol. See because
I have a tolerance for it and I can drink it and I can go through and I don't have to
be deceived by it and that's a perspective that some people have. But I want you to turn
over to Proverbs 23 and I want you to look at a few verses with me in verses 29 through
35 from this text of Scripture because we want to answer what do the Scriptures say.
Now as you're turning over to Proverbs 23 I want to read a verse of Scripture for you
from the New Testament, 1 Corinthians chapter number 2. You don't need to turn over there,
I'm just going to read the verse and then get right back to the book of Proverbs. But
in 1 Corinthians chapter number 2 and verse number 13 the Bible says, which things also
we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth,
comparing spiritual things with spiritual. We find here in Proverbs 23 and verse number
29 the Bible says, who hath woe, who hath sorrow, who hath contentions, who hath babbling,
who hath wounds without cause, who hath redness of eyes. And then the verse says in verse
number 30, they that tarry long at the wine, they that go to seek mixed wine. Now within
the context of those two verses can we identify what is described by the word wine? Is this
an alcoholic beverage or is this fruit of the vine? Well according to verse number 29
it says, who hath woe, who hath sorrow, who hath contentions, who hath babbling, who hath
wounds without cause, who hath redness of eyes, they that tarry long at the wine. So
obviously all of those character traits that are mentioned in verse number 29 or those
symptoms if you will that are mentioned in verse number 29 would provide for us within
the context that wine is referring to an alcoholic beverage, not to the fruit of the vine. You've
never drank grape juice, fresh grape juice through the vine and have had that type of
a result, those types of symptoms. And so we find that the scriptures are speaking about
wine. He then says in verse number 31 it says, look not thou upon the wine when it is red,
when it giveth his color in the cup, when it moveth itself aright. So according to verse
number 31 the wise man is instructing and he says this, don't even look at it. Don't
even look at it. He says there in verse number 31, look not thou upon the wine when it is
red, when it giveth his color in the cup, when it moveth itself aright. There's no grape
juice that I've ever drank that has followed that pattern, that behavior of that particular
drink. And so we find that he's speaking of that alcoholic beverage, don't even look at
it. Verse 32, at the last it, now what is it? Those English scholars, it is referring
back to wine, correct? And as he goes back and he refers to wine it says, at the last
it or wine, biteth like a serpent and stingeth like an adder. Wine, according to verse 32,
is deceitful. Alcohol, it's deceitful. It's poisonous. We find that the serpent, the adder,
they were poisonous and you find that it talks about biting and stingeth and we see the deceitfulness
and the poison of alcohol. In verses 33 and 34 we find that alcohol will impair us. It
says in verse number 33, thine eyes shall behold strange women. Now that's not meaning
that they're strange as in that person's strange. It means the word strange women means that
which does not belong to you. It's not your wife. It's not a woman that belongs to you
in the sense of holy matrimony, man and wife, husband and wife. And so we find here that
it says, thine eyes shall behold strange women and thine heart shall utter perverse
things. Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea or as he that
lieth upon the top of a mast. You see the word picture there in verse number 34 and
you find the impairment of alcohol in verses 33 and 34. We find that it impairs us physically,
emotionally and mentally. In verse number 34 when he uses the word picture of that one
that would lie down in the midst of a sea or that one that lieth upon the top of a mast
and you think about the lack of stability that would be in that context and the physical
impairment there of alcohol, the emotional impairment when he looks in verse number 33
and mental impairment again in verse number 33, thine heart shall utter perverse things.
We find in verse number 35 that the Bible says this,
they have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick.
They have beaten me and I felt it not.
When shall I awake?
Look at what it says.
I will seek it, wine, yet again.
You know what you find from verse number 35?
Wine is addictive.
It's addictive.
So we find within these verses of scripture
that the scriptures teach us that we're not to look at it.
It's deceitful, it's poisonous,
it impairs us physically, emotionally, and mentally,
and it's addictive.
We find that in chapter number 31 of Proverbs
in verses four through seven,
there is more instruction that is given to us
concerning the subject of wine.
Turn over if you will to Proverbs 31,
beginning in verse number four.
In Proverbs 31 and beginning in verse number four,
the Bible says it is not for kings, O Lemuel,
it is not for kings to drink wine,
nor for princes strong drink,
lest they drink and forget the law
and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted.
Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish
and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts.
Let him drink and forget his poverty
and remember his misery no more.
As we look at these verses of scripture,
again, context being our rule,
when we look at the context of the passage,
when it says in verse number four there,
it is not for kings to drink wine.
Is that an alcoholic beverage
or is that fruit of the vine?
Well, again, if you look at context,
he's dealing with it as being an alcoholic beverage,
not being the fruit of the vine.
Why?
Because he says in verse number five,
lest they drink and forget the law,
pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted.
He then says, let him give strong drink
unto him that is ready to perish
and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts
in verses six and seven,
and we'll look at those in just a moment,
but we find that in verses four and five
that this passage of scripture would teach us
that wine, it impairs our judgment.
It impairs our judgment.
We find here that the scriptures say
in verse number five,
lest they drink and forget the law
and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted.
The kings had a responsibility to give judgment,
and here we find that is within context,
Solomon, the wise man,
we find here these words of Lemuel as well,
we find that he's giving within the context
that if you're going to give judgment,
you should not have this alcohol.
Why?
Because it's going to impair your judgment,
and so some people have said
as we look at this passage of scripture,
well, I'm not a king,
so it doesn't apply to me.
Well, are we not supposed to have sound judgment
at all times?
Right?
As God's people, as Christians,
we ought to have sound judgment at all times,
and so if we know that the truth is here
given to those that were in the position
of being king and being in authority
of making decisions and needing sound judgment,
we'd say of ourselves,
well, we need sound judgment in our lives every single day,
and so the truth,
I understand the context speaking of kings,
but the truth that is contained
within the passage of scripture
is applicable and helpful for us
even if we're not kings.
We find that here in verses six and seven,
the scriptures provide for us
the only valid example within the scriptures
to support the use of alcohol.
We find here that it was used as an anesthetic
for those who are ready to perish.
If you look there in verse number six,
it says, give strong drink unto him
that is ready to perish,
and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts.
Let him drink and forget his poverty,
and remember his misery no more.
I did a little research and found that alcohol
is the oldest known sedative.
It is the oldest known sedative,
and as we look at the text of scripture,
and we're asking ourselves this question this evening,
speaking of the subject of alcohol,
what do the scriptures say?
He says, wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging,
whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise,
in Proverbs 20, in verse number one.
We then turn over to Proverbs 23,
and we see some of the characteristics of alcohol,
and how it affects us.
We see in Proverbs chapter number 31,
again, how the effect of alcohol upon the individual person
and impairing their judgment.
So I would ask this question,
as we look at each of those characteristics
and symptoms or results of alcohol,
why in the world would we want
any of those things in our lives?
That's just a question that I ask.
I don't want to be in a position
where I'm impaired physically, or emotionally, or mentally.
I don't wanna be in a position
where I cannot have sound judgment,
where my judgment has been impaired.
I definitely do not wanna be in a position
where we find there in verse number 35 of Proverbs 23,
where the person says there that when they awake,
they will seek it, yet again, it's addictive.
We then ask this question, so we answer the question,
what do the scriptures say?
Let me ask this question, or pose this question,
what does science or medicine say?
Many people wanna look at science and medicine,
and say, well, my doctor told me
to drink a glass of wine a day.
Now, I've read, I have studied extensively
on preparing for this message.
And the reason why I've studied extensively
is because there's so many different opinions out there,
and lots of debate, and what have you.
But I've studied extensively,
and to the best of what I could find,
the medicine and science said this,
they would never recommend to someone who was an abstainer
to begin drinking for any health benefits.
Never would they make that recommendation.
And now, I'm not a doctor.
We have a couple of doctors here this evening,
and they could give you maybe more insight than I could,
but I did try to study the medicine
and science aspect of it, and here's what I found.
Alcohol, it's a poison.
It's a poison.
Alcohol can kill.
Here's a study that was done in the Washington Post.
How many of you get the Washington Post?
One.
Man, no wonder they're not doing well.
I don't get the paper either,
but there's someone within the congregation
that gets it and leaves articles on my desk regularly.
And on December 24th, in the Washington Post,
there was a study about alcohol,
and there's a big, big article.
And in this article, it was talking about
the effects of alcohol on women
was really the scope of this particular article.
I still have the article in my office
if you'd like to see it.
And they were saying that when it comes to alcohol,
alcohol is not fair to women the same way it is to men
because the health effects and impacts on women
are far greater than they are on men.
And here's what this article went on to point out,
that alcohol-related deaths for white women,
because that's who was the part of this study,
from the ages of 35 to 54,
so alcohol-related deaths for that group of people
have doubled since 1999.
And part of the reason for that,
and I don't want to get into it heavily this evening,
is because of all of the marketing that is done
for women to drink alcohol.
There are all kinds of wines and alcoholic beverages
that are on the market today
that talk about mom's time out.
And they have all of these pictures
and all of these things about the busy mom
and how they need the bottle at the end of the night
to be able to deal with all of the troubles and sorrows
and difficulties of parenting and raising children
and so on and so forth.
And marketing has an effect on people.
If it didn't work, they wouldn't do it.
They wouldn't spend millions of dollars
marketing their product if people weren't buying it.
I do not have any idea of the particular movie
that was referenced in this article,
but there was a movie in which someone within the movie,
a lady, chugged down some type of an alcoholic beverage,
and it was a big thing on social media
after this particular video of this movie,
and they said that sales for that company of that product
increased by 22% in the next six weeks.
Marketing works.
It really does.
And unfortunately, the alcohol industry
spends multi-millions, probably billions of dollars annually
on marketing, and so they're targeting this group of people.
And in 2015, for this group of people that were studied,
again, white women ages 35 through 54,
in 2015, all of the deaths among that group of people,
8% of them were alcohol-related.
That's a lot.
So alcohol, it's a poison.
It can kill.
Alcohol affects brain chemistry
by altering levels of neurotransmitters.
I can't get into all of the specifics
because quite honestly, I don't understand all of it,
how the brain works, but I was reading,
and they were talking about all of these chemicals
and just the effect that it has.
It's a dopamine.
It makes you feel good.
It causes you to forget certain things
and so on and so forth.
And we find here that alcohol,
according to Science and Medicine,
that article went on to say
that many people are trying to give this idea
that moderation is a good solution,
but there's nothing within science or medicine
that would support that.
Nothing, according to the article.
Now, of course, there's people that are opening op-eds
against it and so on and so forth,
but here's the thing.
There's a huge study that's going on,
$100 million worth of study
that is funded by the alcoholic industry
to determine whether these things are true.
Now, what do you think they're gonna come up with
as a conclusion?
They're gonna come up to the conclusion
that alcohol's okay for you.
It does not have any of those effects on you.
Why?
Because they're going to stand to lose drastically.
And so we find when we look at science and medicine,
there's no evidence, there's no support
within those things, and I researched extensively.
Nothing that I could find that was of any
solid, concrete evidence that would support.
support the use of alcohol. Now this is another question that we get when we speak about the
subject of alcohol. Well, didn't Jesus drink wine? How many of you have heard that before?
He made wine in the marriage at Cana in John chapter 2 and so didn't Jesus drink it? And
so I've heard people say this. Many have justified social drinking with this statement. It must
be okay because Jesus made it and Jesus drank it. John chapter 2 does record for us the
account of the marriage at Cana and where the scriptures speak about they turned water
into wine. Now turn over there because context matters, right? We've been dealing with that
in each of these passages that we've looked at thus far and we want to look at the context
here. The scriptures say in John chapter 2, now you understand that the weddings amongst
the Jewish custom and all of the process there are quite different than the Western weddings
that we have today. Typically you think of a Western wedding and most of us if we think
of a wedding today we think of a ceremony followed by a reception and most receptions
that you'd go to have all kinds of alcohol and all kinds of things going on and people
are getting a little too tipsy. Why? Because they're not buying it, somebody else is, it's
an open bar, so on and so forth and it gets out of hand. That was not the way that wedding
ceremonies were handled in Jewish tradition, Jewish culture. And it was really a, it was
a long process. It was an extended process. There was lots of worship that was related
to it but we find here that the scriptures say in verse number 5 and his mother, speaking
of Mary of course, saith unto the servants, what shall we say unto you, do it? In verse
number 6 the Bible says, and there were set there six water pots of stone after the manner
of the purifying of the Jews containing two or three firkins apiece. Jesus saith unto
them, fill the water pots with water and they filled them up to the brim. And he saith unto
them, draw out now and bear unto the governor of the feast and they bear it. The ruler of
the feast had taste of the water that was made wine and knew not whence it was but the
servants which drew the water knew. The governor of the feast called the bridegroom and saith
unto him, every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine and when men have well
drunk then that which is worse but thou has kept the good wine until now. This beginning
of miracles did Jesus in the kingdom of Galilee manifest it forth his glory and his disciples
believed on him. Now, very quickly, wine is not made from a natural process. Some people
believe that. Some people think that if you just have a bunch of grapes and you let them
just sit there they're going to turn into wine. It doesn't happen. Sugar is required,
water is required, of course the fruit of the vine is required and temperature is a
major, major part. If it was a natural process why would people spend the kind of money that
they do on their distilleries in order to make it? If it's just a natural process
that takes place. It's not a natural process. There are other conditions that are necessary
and here's what happened. During the Jewish time, and I had somebody tell me this several
years ago, everyone that had grapes or everyone that drank wine, fruit of the vine, in Israel,
in the Jewish, in the promised land, it was alcoholic because there were no grapes that
were native to the land and everything had to be imported and by process of import it
would naturally turn to alcoholic beverage. And I said, well, what was it that Joshua
and Caleb and those spies brought back when they searched out the land in Canaan and they
brought so many grapes that it had to be between two men carried on a stave? There were plenty
of grapes that were native to that part of the land. They did not have to import them
but here's what they found. See, grapes will not, it will not naturally turn to wine but
it can spoil. And so you know what they found out? It's amazing when you really do the
study and kind of figure things out. They would take and they would boil down all of
the juice, all of the grapes, and they would get into a syrup type of a concentrate. And
they would find that if they would do that, that it would preserve much longer and they
could do this. They would take it and they would add water to it, mix it, and now they
would have fruit of the vine. It wasn't an alcoholic beverage. It was a process of
preservation where they understood that it would not spoil as quickly if they would boil
it down and have it as a syrup. How many of us have had juice from a concentrate before?
You buy a frozen concentrate and you're supposed to add how much water to it, whatever the
can says. I don't know. I don't drink it. I've not, I can't remember the last time
I did something like that. But you buy it in the store and it's this orange concentrate.
If you just let that melt and drink it, it's going to be really strong and it's not going
to taste great. But you mix that thing with some water and you get it, and man, it's good.
Why? Because it's concentrated properly and it's the process of preservation. They boil
it down into a concentrate. They freeze it so that it could be used for future use. Of
course, they did not freeze it during Bible times. They did not have the ability to do
that. But they would use it in that type of a situation. And so when we look at the context
again, look at what the ruler of the feast said in verse number nine. He tasted the water
that was made wine and knew not whence it was. And look what he says in verse number
ten. Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine, the best. Now the fruit of the
vine is tasty. Fresh grape juice is, to those that like it, I'm not a particular fan of
it, but it's good. It tastes good. And then he says this, and when men have well drunk
that which is worse. So if he could tell, now here's the idea, and these marriage feasts,
they last a long time. If these folks were drunk, intoxicated, they would not be able
to tell that, man, this is better than what we had at the beginning. Why? Because they're
affected, those symptoms that we looked at. And so we look here. Many times what would
happen is after they would take that syrup, that concentrate, if you will, that had been
boiled down, they would mix certain parts of water with it to serve it. But as they
got further along, they would use more water and less syrup. Why? Because they were running
out of product and they were, it was not as rich. It was not as vibrant, if you will.
Why? Because there was more water. When we had, when the children were little, we used
to dilute their juice all the time. I don't particularly like diluted drinks. I don't
want my tea half tea and half water. I'm not interested in that. This afternoon the missionary
asked for a Coke and a water and then said this, but not in the same glass. We don't
want our Coke, you know, we don't want it watered down. And so that's kind of what
would happen. And so we look at the context here and we understand the idea of a marriage
and the festival and all that would take place in that marriage ceremony. We understand that
this is fruit of the vine that was made by the Lord. Now let me also say this. When we
think about the question, did Jesus drink wine? I want you to understand that Jesus,
he is our great high priest. Amen? He's our great high priest. Priests were not permitted
to drink wine, the alcoholic beverage, according to Leviticus chapter number 10. Turn back
over there if you will and we'll look at Leviticus chapter number 10 in verses 8-11. Leviticus
chapter number 10, the instruction that is given concerning those of the Aaronic priesthood
and we find in verse number 8 of Leviticus 10 it says, and the Lord spake unto Aaron
saying, Do not, that's pretty clear right? Do not drink wine nor strong drink thou nor
thy sons with thee when you go into the tabernacle of the congregation lest ye die. It shall
be a statute forever throughout your generations and that ye may put difference between holy
and unholy and between unclean and clean. Ah, but pastor it says this, you shall not
drink strong drink or do not drink wine nor strong drink when you go into the tabernacle
of the congregation lest ye die. So as they were doing service they weren't allowed to
drink but other than that if they weren't involved in service then they were allowed
to drink. Jesus is our great high priest. He is forever in service as a priest. There's
no time that Jesus as our great high priest is not the great high priest. There was no
time that he was not fulfilling that role as priest. We find that, remember he is prophet,
priest and king and we find that in Hebrews chapter number 4 and verses 14 and 15 the
scriptures tell us concerning the Lord Jesus Christ and his priesthood. Ah, the author
of Hebrews puts it this way and I love the way that he words it there in Hebrews 4 beginning
in verse number 14 he says this, he says, Seeing then that we have a great high priest
that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the son of God, let us hold fast our profession
for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities
but was in all points tempted like as we are yet without sin. Would it have been a violation
of God's word for the Aaronic priesthood to drink wine or strong drink when they were
performing the task of being a priest? Yes. It would have violated the law of God. It
would have been wrong. It says in the scriptures, lest ye die. That's pretty serious. Well
Jesus Christ is our great high priest and so when we ask the question did Jesus drink
wine or when people run around, well Jesus drank wine. Really? Really? I don't think
he did. Actually I would say this, I know that he didn't because he is our great high
priest. Not only is he our great high priest but we understand that Jesus is king of kings.
However, according to Proverbs 31 and verse number 4, kings were not permitted to drink
wine. Correct? We looked at that verse in the beginning. And if kings were not permitted
to drink wine according to Proverbs chapter number 31 and verse number 4 and that of course
within context was the alcoholic beverage, then we would say well if Jesus Christ is
and he is king of kings and lord of lords then obviously he would not have violated
his own word. In 1st Timothy chapter number 6 and beginning in verse number 13 if you
turn over to that passage just a few pages over from the book of Hebrews we find in 1st
Timothy 6 and verses 13 through 16.
The Bible says this,
I give thee charge in the sight of God who quickeneth all things
and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed
a good confession, verse 14 of 1 Timothy 6, that thou keep
this commandment without spot, unrebukable unto the appearing of our Lord Jesus
Christ, which in his times he shall show, who is the blessed and
only potentate, the King of kings and Lord of lords.
Jesus came to fulfill.
Jesus would not have violated his own word. Amen?
And so did Jesus drink wine? Well, Jesus is our great high priest.
Jesus is King of kings. And if the priests were not permitted to drink,
if the kings were not permitted to drink, and Jesus is prophet, priest, and
king, then we'd say, no, Jesus did not drink alcoholic beverage.
He did not drink that wine. Did he drink fruit of the vine? Sure he did.
But did he drink alcoholic beverage? No.
Well, pastor, I've got another one for you. Paul instructed Timothy to drink wine.
You're there in 1 Timothy chapter number 6? Look in chapter number 5,
if you will. In 1 Timothy chapter number 5, remember
context is key. We used to say
context is king, and actually Brother Wheelock
this morning mentioned how that many false doctrines have been
developed by taking scripture out of context. And that's true.
And it is absolutely vital that we look within the context of scripture.
And so as we look here at the scripture, he says, drink no longer water, but use a little wine.
Period. That's where most people want to stop.
Don't drink water. Drink wine. See? Paul told Timothy to drink wine.
Why? He said, for thy stomach's
sake and thine often infirmities.
Obviously from the text of scripture, Timothy had some sort of stomach issue.
Some stomach troubles that he was dealing with. And as he looks at the scripture
here and he says, for thy stomach's sake and thine often infirmities, we find here
that obviously within many places of the world,
water sources can be impure and can actually cause stomach
illness or further aggravate the symptoms of those that
already have a stomach ailment. And so you think about this. Paul is telling
Timothy, where you are, you already have this problem. Don't drink the water.
Do not. I'm going to go to Mexico in March.
I'm going to go with Beacon of Truth going down there for a couple of days on a missions trip and
looking at those ministries that we've sent all of those scriptures to
and looking forward to that. You know what someone said? When you go, don't drink the water.
See how many bottles of water you can take with you because you don't want to drink the water.
It'll make you sick. There are places in the world that the water will make you sick.
And so here, wherever it was, as Timothy is serving and Paul
understands the situation, and Paul says, don't drink the water but drink wine.
Now, this is the interesting thing when we think about the context.
Paul instructs Timothy to drink wine, but was it alcoholic wine or was it the fruit of the vine?
From everything that I can gather through the research, and I actually spoke with a doctor about this
specifically, if you had a stomach ulcer or a stomach issue, would you
recommend drinking alcoholic beverage? And they said, absolutely not.
Never would I recommend drinking an alcoholic beverage
if you have a stomach infirmity. If you have an issue with your stomach
do not drink alcohol.
Now, do you think the Holy Spirit knew that?
Kind of being a little fastidious. Listen, if medicine knows it today, and God is
all-knowing and He's all-wise, and He, God is the author of Scripture, the Holy Spirit
is the author of Scripture, did He know that? Absolutely He knew that.
And so He wouldn't tell him to drink something that would further complicate
His symptoms. He was telling him to drink grape juice. Now, here's an interesting
thing. I began to do some study on the fruit of the vine, of the grape juice.
And you know, I found all kinds of wonderful accounts of
the healing properties and the health
benefits of grape juice, of the fruit of the vine.
Now, I'll be honest with you, when I was reading all of this information, I was studying all of it,
and I'm like, man, this stuff sounds like it's great for you, but I don't like it.
I honestly, I don't like, I do not like grape juice. I know that some of you do.
When we have the Lord's Supper, I look for the smallest little cup of grape juice
because I don't like it. I just flat out don't like it. But I began to read and study
about all of these health benefits and the positive properties within grape juice.
In one article that I was reading from a doctor that wrote this article
and they were dealing with these things, and they said it's possible, after the research
they've done, they believe that it was possible that the
healing properties, the health benefits of grape juice, the fruit of the vine,
if you are exposed to the stomach virus and you
begin to drink pure grape juice, it has the ability
to either completely prevent you from getting the stomach bug
or greatly decrease the symptoms.
I said, well, that's kind of interesting. And then like a week
later, Juliana got the stomach flu at school. I said,
honey, I'm going to the store. She said, what are you getting? I said, I'm getting grape juice.
She said, you're getting grape juice? Yeah, man. She's like, you don't drink grape juice.
But I was doing some study. I was doing some research on this message that I'm going to preach.
And this research that I saw said that, and I told her what it said, what I just told you.
We all began to drink grape juice and
not to get gruesome or whatever, but Juliana, she had the stomach bug and man, it was bad.
It was 14 times within about 8-10 hours. I mean, it was just bad.
And we all began to drink it. Joseph and I
got it just a tad. And Holly and Brianna didn't get it ever.
I'm just telling you an experience that we
had after I did this research and studied on it. And I thought, well, let's test
it out, see how it works. And we find here that
God would instruct Paul through the Holy Spirit, the inspiration
of the Word of God, and told him, don't drink the water, but use a little wine.
And so we find here, again, within context. And so I do not believe
that he was telling him to drink the alcoholic beverage. So, here's the question.
We start at this question in the beginning. The question that we
asked in the beginning in the introduction was this. Temperance or abstinence?
I said that just about every single Christian I've ever spoken to
has told me, when speaking about the subject of alcohol, that they would readily
admit and agree that drunkenness is wrong.
So we then ask the question, should we
totally abstain or is it okay in moderation?
Let me give you a couple of quotes that I read
as I was preparing. Here's the first quote.
It is an irrefutable fact that a man that does not drink at all,
total abstinence, will never get drunk one time
and will certainly never become a drunk.
Pretty simple. If you don't drink, you're never going to become a drunk.
Which is not possible. Why? Because you don't drink. You totally abstain from it.
The author of that article
then went on to say this, one can never know if he
will control it, the alcohol, or
if it, the alcohol, will control him.
See, here's the issue. When I studied from a scientific and
a medicine perspective, a medical perspective, here's what I found out.
Science, medicine,
they cannot identify what
causes an individual to become an alcoholic. They don't know.
They absolutely do not know. So the potential is this.
And I'll use Holly and I as an example. I've never drank
wine in my life. I've never drank alcohol one time in my life. And I don't say that boastfully, pridefully,
anything. I'm just stating a fact. As far as I know, neither has Holly.
Holly hasn't either. And here's
what you find in science and medicine. They will say this, that Holly
and I could both agree that we're going to go out tonight after church and we're going to go have
dinner together and we're going to have a drink.
She could have one drink and never drink it again. I could have one drink and be
hooked for the rest of my life. And science can't answer
why. They do not know. It's like there's a
hook at the end of the bottle. Some people, it's just something
within their chemical makeup and they don't know what. One drink.
There are countless testimonies. I was reading testimony after
testimony of testimony of individuals that said this.
I never set out to get addicted, but after one drink
I was hooked. There are people that you can meet today.
When I was a senior in high school, I was in the church in
California and Paul Marchand was my pastor. And we
went, I don't know, once a month,
once every quarter I think it was actually, to the Los Angeles,
California, at the L.A. rescue mission. And we go down to that rescue
mission and those people, they're homeless people that are there and they had to in order to get
a lodging and a meal, they had to sit through a church service.
And you would be absolutely amazed at how many of those individuals would
say this. How did you end up here? Like what happened?
I was a professional. I was a lawyer.
I was a fill in the blank. And
I had a family. I had children. And there was so much stress at work.
I just went out and drank and I got hooked.
And I lost everything. I lost my career.
I lost my family. I lost everything.
Because I decided to take a drink and I got hooked.
Now, I understand there's some people that say,
well, pastor, my experience is,
I know this person that this one said this.
The fact of the matter is that science can't tell you
what could cause one person to become an alcoholic
and one to not.
And if we understand and we agree that drunkenness is wrong
and we don't know what would cause somebody
to become a drunk,
then how do we deal with the subject of alcohol?
Let me give you two more examples.
I want you to understand as we think about this subject
of temperance or abstinence,
we spoke about the Lord Jesus Christ
being the great high priest.
But I want you to remember that we too
are called the priest, the priesthood of the believer.
And turn over to the book of 1 Peter chapter number two,
if you will.
In 1 Peter chapter number two,
we'll look at verses five and verse number nine,
because the scriptures tell us that we are
in holy priesthood.
The priest in the Old Testament had a responsibility
and their responsibility, of course,
had to do with offerings and sacrifices
and so on and so forth.
And they were part of the Aaronic priesthood.
Well, we find within the New Testament
that we have been told that we,
when we trust Christ as our savior,
when we're adopted in the family of God,
that we are priest.
We are the priesthood of the believer.
In 1 Peter chapter number two and verse number three,
the Bible says,
if so be you have tasted that the Lord is gracious
to whom coming as unto a living stone,
disallowed in deed of men but chosen of God and precious,
ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house
and holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices
acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.
Now, he says that we are in holy priesthood.
How did one become a priest in the Old Testament?
It was lineage.
It was the Aaronic priesthood.
If you were born in that family, priest.
How do we become a priest?
By being born into the family of God.
You must be born again, right?
We're saved, we're born again,
and we are adopted in the family of God
and we are the priesthood of the believer.
But look what he says in the end of verse number five.
To offer up what?
Spiritual sacrifices, he says this,
that are acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.
Skip down to verse number nine.
But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood,
and a holy nation of peculiar people
that ye should show forth the praises of him
who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
And so we find again that he says
that we are a holy priesthood in verse number five
and then a royal, or excuse me,
in verse number five, a holy priesthood,
and in verse number nine, a royal priesthood.
But we see in verse number five that he says
that we're to offer those spiritual sacrifices
that are acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.
Do you know what one of those spiritual sacrifices are?
The scriptures tell us that we are to turn over,
Hebrews 13 and verse number 15.
In Hebrews 13 and verse number 15, the scriptures say this.
By him, therefore, let us offer
the sacrifice of praise to God.
What's that next word say?
Or that next word?
Continually, that is the fruit of our lips
giving thanks to his name.
So we are to, according to 1 Peter chapter number two,
we're a holy priesthood.
We are a royal priesthood,
and we are, according to that text of scripture,
we are to offer up sacrifices that are acceptable to God
through Christ Jesus, is what the scripture says.
And then in verse number 15 of Hebrews 13,
God gives us, here's what one of those sacrifices are.
It's not a burnt offering, a meal offering,
and all of those offerings that the Aaronic priest brought,
but according to Hebrews 13 and verse number 15,
he says let us offer the sacrifice.
Remember, he says that we're to offer up
spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable to God
by Jesus Christ.
He says here that the sacrifice is this.
Praise to God how often?
Continually.
When was the priest forbidden to drink alcohol
in the Old Testament?
During their time of service.
If our time of service is continually,
then when are we to drink alcohol?
Now, I wanna give you one more example.
Turn to the book of Genesis in chapter number nine.
I know the hour is gone.
I have more notes and I've spent more hours
studying for this message than I have
for 10 messages combined.
I'm just being honest.
I knew what my position was, I knew what my belief was,
and I wanted to give a thorough answer
to give you what the scriptures say,
to share with you some thoughts of medicine and science
and what have you, and those things,
listen, if science and medicine contradict the Bible,
it's the Bible that's our authority, amen?
But in this particular case,
they support what the scriptures say.
But I want you to look in Genesis chapter number nine.
I want you to look at the example of Noah.
Now, let me ask you this.
Do you think Noah intended to get drunk
and have this situation happen in his life?
I would say no.
If you look at the life of Noah
and you look at all that's taking place,
the Bible says of Noah in chapter number six
that he found grace in the eyes of the Lord.
Why?
He was a just man, perfect in his generations,
and Noah walked with God.
As soon as they got off of the ark, what did he do?
He offered sacrifices, built an altar, and made sacrifices.
But in Genesis chapter number nine,
the Bible says in verse number 20,
and Noah began to be a husbandman and he planted a vineyard
and he drank of the wine and was drunken
and he was uncovered within his tent.
And Ham, the father of Canaan,
saw the nakedness of his father
and told his two brethren without.
Shem and Jephath come and they took a garment
and laid it upon both their shoulders,
went backward, covered the nakedness of their father,
and their faces were backward
and they saw not his father's nakedness.
Noah awoke from his wine
and knew what his younger son had done unto him.
He said this, cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants,
shall he be unto his brethren.
And I look at the text of Scripture,
see the New Testament tells us this,
that before the flood, they were eating and drinking
and being merry and so on and so forth.
And so obviously, people learned
how to make the fruit of the vine
into an alcoholic beverage prior to the flood,
according to what we find in the New Testament,
Matthew speaking about that time before the flood.
Now, if we understand that
and we look at this text of Scripture
and we find that he was a husbandman
and he planted a vineyard,
he understood how to make the alcoholic beverage
because the Bible says he was drunken.
He didn't get drunk by just drinking the fruit of the vine.
And the Scriptures say that he was uncovered within his tent.
Do you really think that a man with the testimony of Noah
in Genesis chapter number six, seven, eight,
and into chapter number nine up to this point,
do you think that he set out to drink that fruit of the,
or to drink that wine that he made
and to get drunk and to end up uncovered in his tent?
To bring a curse upon the, you see in verse number 25,
he said, a curse would be Canaan,
a servant of a servant shall I be to his brethren.
Do you think that's what he set out to do?
I'd say no.
And it takes me back to one of the quotes that I shared.
One can never know if he will control it
or if it will control him.
And so as we look at the subject this evening
and we not only look at the text of Scripture
from the book of Proverbs,
but answer the question that was posed over the summer,
my answer for you is that as a believer
of the Bible, of the Scriptures,
as someone that wants to walk with God and please God,
I believe that the answer in regard to alcohol and wine
is total abstinence.
Because it is an irrefutable fact
that a man that does not drink at all
will never get drunk one time
and will certainly never become a drunk.
I got a phone call several years ago
from a relative of someone
that was very concerned about their relative.
And they asked me if I would go make a visit.
It was a Saturday evening, it was late.
I try to really keep my Saturday evenings free.
Sunday, church, be prepared physically
and mentally and emotionally.
I like to get to bed early on Saturday evening.
And so I went to make this visit
and I found an individual that was drunk out of their mind.
They were drunk on wine.
They didn't drink any hard liquor.
And I could not understand as I was trying to,
on the behalf of this other family member,
help and minister.
And after a extended period of time,
I asked the individual, I said,
so let me just ask you this,
what made you drink?
Like, why?
And this is the answer, I promise you,
this is the answer.
The red skin's lost.
And I was so disappointed
and I just wanted to take one drink.
And I'm drunk out of my mind.
Within the next two and a half weeks,
the individual had to be transported to the hospital
on a number of occasions.
The individual had threatened to take his own life.
There were requirements to have safety checks
by law enforcement to go check and do a welfare check.
Because the man.
was disappointed with a sporting event and the outcome of it and took one drink.
He thought he was going to take one drink. And you say, but pastor, that never happened to me.
Wine is a mocker. Strong drink is raging. Whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.
I think the most wise position is to say total abstinence. I've tried to do my best on giving
the answer from the scriptures, not being partial to anything that I've just kind of come up with my
own opinion, but the scriptures seem to be clear to me. And we have to take that position of total
abstinence. I hope this evening it's been a help for you. I studied extensively because I know that
in the day and age in which we live, there's a battle that rages amongst Christendom on this
subject of total abstinence or moderation. Is social drinking okay? And there is a ton of
peer pressure that is put upon us. When I was a junior in high school, I had not even saved,
but I was going to a church and I had not yet trusted Christ as my savior, but we were going
to the church faithfully and I was trying to get some friends to go to church with me. And
we were after a baseball game one evening and I was not at a party, none of that kind of stuff,
but a friend, I said, I was thirsty. He said, here's a Coke, you can have it.
And he had mixed that Coke with strong drink. And I just got it to here and I could smell it.
You know what that person was trying to do? They were trying to deceive me
to take that first drink. See, the world tells us we're missing out on something.
You're missing out. I don't think so. That's right. Because with all of the marketing and
all of the glamour and all of what the industry wants to tell you, you know what they forget to
tell you? The fact that 40% of Americans have grown up in a home with an alcoholic, the abuse,
the neglect. They fail to tell you about the people that have lost their lives because
somebody gets behind a wheel of a vehicle after they're impaired. You see it on the news. You
see it all around us. And this evening, we look at it, we say, listen, I'm not missing out on
anything. They didn't know it. They didn't know what was going on. They didn't know what was
going on. I'm not missing out on anything. They didn't know it. The Wheelocks this afternoon were
having lunch. They made a statement. And I said, that's kind of funny because I'm going to be
speaking on that subject this evening. Heather grabbed the menu and she said, look at the prices.
Even if I wasn't a Christian, I wouldn't want to spend that kind of money on alcohol.
That was kind of funny. It's not about money. It's not about health or science,
about what the Bible says. And so this evening, I hope it was a help for you. Let's pray together.
Father, we love you. We thank you for the opportunity to be in your house.
We thank you for your word and for the truth that is contained therein.
And God, I pray that your Holy Spirit would take